docs: Add CLAUDE.md AI-agent guidance (ORC-7665) (#1837)
primer-io/primer-sdk-ios: CLAUDE.md

  -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 16" \
  test

# Single test class
xcodebuild -workspace PrimerSDK.xcworkspace \
  -scheme "PrimerSDKTests" \
  -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 16" \
  -testPlan "UnitTestsTestPlan" \
  -only-testing:"Tests/SomeClassTests" \
  test
```

## Acceptance gates (must pass before merge)

- **SwiftFormat** — CI-enforced, config `BuildTools/.swiftformat` (`--swift-version 5.9`).
- **SwiftLint** — config `Debug App/.swiftlint.yml`. Key limits: line 150, file 500/800,
  function body 60/100, cyclomatic 12/20.
- **Unit tests** green.
- **SonarCloud** new-lines coverage gate.

Run quality checks on changed files before committing:

```bash
swiftformat <file.swift> --config BuildTools/.swiftformat
swiftlint lint --fix --config "Debug App/.swiftlint.yml"
swiftlint lint --config "Debug App/.swiftlint.yml"
```

## Conventions & guardrails

- **Conventional Commits**: `fix:`, `feat:`, `chore:`, `refactor:`, `ci:`, `docs:`, `test:`, `perf:`.
  Sentence-case, imperative subjects (~50 chars): `fix: Add retry logic for polling`.
- **PRs** use `.github/pull_request_template.md` and require a Jira ticket (`CHKT-XXXX`).

> - **Access control**: prefer `public` for public API; don't spell out the default `internal`.

Reviewer: @spi public for internal api that needs to be exposed across module boundaries

# CLAUDE.md

Guidance for Claude Code (claude.ai/code) and other AI agents working in this repo.

## What this is

> Primer iOS SDK — Universal Checkout SDK for Primer's payment platform. iOS 13.0+, Swift 6.0+. This is the flagship iOS SDK.

Reviewer 2: Should this be Swift 5? `PrimerSDK.podspec:13` and `Package.swift:12` both say 5.

```suggestion
Primer iOS SDK — Universal Checkout SDK for Primer's payment platform. iOS 13.0+, Swift 5 (Xcode 26.2 in CI).
```

See @PrimerSDK.podspec for the current version.

## Repo structure

The SDK is a modular codebase:

- `Modules/` — independently-scoped modules, each with its own podspec:
  - `PrimerFoundation`, `PrimerCore`, `PrimerNetworking`, `PrimerResources`,
    `PrimerUI`, `PrimerStepResolver`, `PrimerBDCCore`, `PrimerBDCEngine`
- `Sources/PrimerSDK/` — umbrella SDK (`Classes/` has `Core`, `Services`, `Data Models`,
  `User Interface`, `PCI`, `BackendDrivenCheckout`, `Extensions & Utilities`, `Error Handler`)
- `Tests/` — unit/integration tests for the SDK
- `Debug App/` — example/host app used for manual + UI testing (bundle ID `com.primerapi.PrimerSDKExample`)
- `Packages/`, `Package*.swift` — SPM manifests (vanilla + optional integrations: 3DS, Klarna, NolPay, Stripe)
- Podspecs: `PrimerSDK.podspec` (umbrella) + one per module

**Generated / DO-NOT-EDIT** (regenerated by tooling — do not hand-edit):
- `Sources/PrimerSDK/Classes/version.swift`

> - `Modules/PrimerCore/Sources/PrimerCore/Settings/PrimerApiVersion.swift`

Reviewer 2: Is this one actually generated? Nothing in the repo writes it — `.cz.toml` only bumps `version.swift` and the podspecs.

## Setup & run

> Open `PrimerSDK.xcworkspace`. When switching branches, run `pod install` in `Debug App/`, then return to the repo root.

Reviewer 2: Should this be `bundle install` + `bundle exec pod install` (`README.md:65-67`)? And needed on first clone too — `Pods/` is gitignored.

```suggestion
Open `PrimerSDK.xcworkspace`. On first clone and after switching branches, run `bundle install` then `bundle exec pod install` in `Debug App/` — `Pods/` is gitignored, so the build fails without it.
```

Find an available simulator, then build the Debug App:

```bash
xcrun simctl list devices available

xcodebuild -workspace PrimerSDK.xcworkspace \
  -scheme "Debug App" \

>   -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 16" \

Reviewer 2: Should this match CI? fastlane pins `iPhone 17 Pro` / `OS=26.2` (`Fastfile:129`) — `iPhone 16` isn't installed here.

  build
```

For UI changes: build the Debug App, boot a simulator, launch the app, navigate to the affected screen, and verify with screenshots.

## Tests

Unit tests run via the `PrimerSDKTests` scheme; test plans live in `Debug App/Tests/`
(`UnitTestsTestPlan.xctestplan`, `DebugAppTestPlan.xctestplan`).

```bash
# All unit tests
xcodebuild -workspace PrimerSDK.xcworkspace \
  -scheme "PrimerSDKTests" \
  -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 16" \
  test

# Single test class
xcodebuild -workspace PrimerSDK.xcworkspace \
  -scheme "PrimerSDKTests" \
  -destination "platform=iOS Simulator,name=iPhone 16" \
  -testPlan "UnitTestsTestPlan" \
  -only-testing:"Tests/SomeClassTests" \
  test
```

## Acceptance gates (must pass before merge)

> - **SwiftFormat** — CI-enforced, config `BuildTools/.swiftformat` (`--swift-version 5.9`).

Reviewer 2: Should this be 5.3? That's what `BuildTools/.swiftformat:1` says on master.

```suggestion
- **SwiftFormat** — CI-enforced, config `BuildTools/.swiftformat` (`--swift-version 5.3`).
```

> - **SwiftLint** — config `Debug App/.swiftlint.yml`. Key limits: line 150, file 500/800,
>   function body 60/100, cyclomatic 12/20.

Reviewer 2: Did these numbers come from the CC branch? On master the config only sets `line_length: 150` — the other three keys don't exist.

```suggestion
- **SwiftLint** — config `Debug App/.swiftlint.yml`, run via Danger on changed files. Only
  `line_length: 150` (warning) is configured; the rest are SwiftLint defaults.
```

- **Unit tests** green.

> - **SonarCloud** new-lines coverage gate.

Reviewer 2: Should Danger be on this list? It hard-fails on non-conventional PR titles (`Dangerfile.swift:92`) and it's what runs SwiftLint. And is the Sonar gate server-side? There's no threshold in the repo.
